Pride and Prejudice is a novel that investigates, in such a variety of ways, how one should live and principles of conduct that sometimes the work seems more an encyclopedia than a novel.  Do you want to know how to converse while dancing? Or perhaps its a question of how to travel to Derbyshire and to visit the great houses there. But most of all the novel studies how humans love, pursue money, and the way they deal with hopes and disappointments. Mr. Wickham and Mr. Collins pursue money by flattering the rich; while Charlotte marries for money. Indeed, sticking like glue to him for three days, Charlotte’s pursuit of Mr. Collins is perhaps the most 
cold-bloodedly ruthless of the novel, however, Mr. Darcy is perhaps pursued by Caroline Bingley more ingeniously. Caroline not only flatters Darcy and his sister, but also criticizes any potential rival, which is, in a sense, a higher order of pursuit. Mrs. Bennet or Lady Catherine prove to be the cleverest schemer for love, though she is not as successful in the Brighton scheme as in the horseback-riding scheme. Since Darcy and Elizabeth are in fact united by Lady Catherine’s, “unjustifiable endeavors” (p. 360), in a certain sense, Lady Catherine is the novel’s most successful (or unsuccessful) schemer. Mr. Bingley suggests another competitive contrast; the question is, between Jane and he, who is the greater optimist. The novel shows, however, that even the most optimistic can scheme and learn: knowing about Darcy and Elizabeth’s engagement, Bingley said to Mr. Bennet, “Have you no more lanes hereabouts in which Lizzy may lose her way again today” (p. 354 ). Learning from his own courtship experiences, Mr. Bingley’s understanding of the need for privacy has grown. Jane, too, is learning something darker about human nature, for she will never trust Caroline Bingley again. But it is humans hopes and disappointments that the novel ultimately investigates most acutely: whether it is a person’s hope for a trip, a flirtation, or an in-law, the novel examines their feelings about the hopes in minute detail. Ultimately, hope and desire, the novel repeatedly and ironically suggests, leads inevitably to disappointment—and then one starts to hope for something new. 